We're going to be going over a couple of different tools in these upcoming lessons.
One of the most powerful tools at a Software Engineer's toolbelt is the
Integrated Development Environment, or IDE. An IDE is where you organize, write, 
and run your code. It is what you've seen me recording in every video up until now that
I've released. 

The IDE that I've been using up until now in every video is called Visual Studio Code,
more commonly referred to as VS Code. It is a product released by Microsoft, and it's free.
For those reasons alone right there I think you should download it. Microsoft is in no way
paying me to say that. I'm sure you could probably gather that though from the fact
that I have 5 subscribers on my YouTube account as of writing this lecture. 

Visual Studio Code is great. It has many people around the world using it, and you will
see why that is more important in the future. Because as you are looking up error codes that 
may be specific to your IDE or you are wanting to download a theme for your IDE that makes
the colors look different, or the file icons look different, you will find many people
posting on many different websites about these things. You can then go Google what it is
you're wondering about your specific IDE. In our case, for Visual Studio Code, lots of useful
information will pop up right away.

So let's get to downloading Visual Studio Code. Go to this link:

https://code.visualstudio.com/download

And you will find the links to download VS Code for any operating system you may be using. 
So fear not, my windows users, you too can have Visual Studio Code on your computer.

After downloading your version of VS Code, you can go through the installation process, and I'll
meet you in VS Code for a tour. 

After you download VS Code, I'm going to tell you to do something rather controversial, but in 
my opinion, necessary. You need to change your color theme from the default to something that doesn't
cause the eyes excrutiating pain. This will actually give us a pretty good tour while we do so. 

First go to extensions tab on the top left vertical toolbar, and you will be shown another vertical
bar with extensions populated. You can look through some of these other extensions at your leisure,
there are thousands of them. 

For now, let's just search for the Noctis themes. This is a pack of some of my favorite themese for VS Code.
Clicking on Noctis will show you the details about the extension package on your editor screen. I would
highly suggest pressing install. 

After installing, go to the gear icon to open up a settings panel, and navigate to where it says
"Color Theme". There you can choose from a drop down all of the color themes you just installed.
My personal favorite is just called Noctis.

Now, it's time to open up a new project and start creating and writing code in VS Code. 

From the editor panel, choose "Add Workspace Folder..." and choose where you want to create your First
VS Code workspace. You could, like I do, have a folder on your desktop called "Development" where you
keep all of your code from now on. Programmers like to be organized, so that'd be a good spot, in my mind
to create a new folder that will hold this workspace inside that Development folder on your Desktop.

Once you have your workspace folder picked out, go ahead and click on the workspace icon in the navigation
panel of VS Code, and press the later "a" on your keyboard. This will create a new file in your workspace,
after your give it a name and press enter.

Now you can start writing your first JavaScript code inside of the code editor! Or you could write Python
code or Java code (a completely different language than JavaScript) or really any other kind of code. 

If you wanted to run your code eventually, like you've seen me doing in my terminal panel of VS Code, you could
right click on the workspace icon in the navigation panel of VS Code, and hit open in terminal. 

This will open up a brand new terminal for you to use that is exactly like your computers default terminal
program. On Mac OS, it will use what's called bash. I will go over in another lesson soon how to use the
terminal in more depth. Suffice it to know for now that the terminal is a very powerful piece of VS Code's
and your computer's operations when programming. 

Inside the navigation bar on the left, you can create new files, create new folders, and run the terminal
FROM a specific place in your file structure wihtin the open workspaces you currently have on your
navigation panel. 

You can also have multiple tabs open with different files all with different code in them. 

You can also arrange multiple windows of code in your code editor panel of VS Code by dragging the tabs
next to each other on the code editor panel. That way you can reference other pieces of code or information
while writing code that is broken out into multiple files. 

VS Code has many operations you can perform to personalize your workspace. And they will be remembered by
VS Code. These personalization settings are saved with the workspace. Mess around with VS Code. Maybe
code some of the JavaScript lessons from my earlier videos in VS Code yourself, getting a hang of how to use it,
how to navigate between files, and all that jazz. This will be your program of choice moving forward.